A black hole is an astronomical body so compact that its gravity prevents anything, including light, from escaping. Albert Einstein's theory of general relativity, which describes gravitation as the curvature of spacetime, predicts that any sufficiently compact mass will form a black hole. The boundary of no escape is called the event horizon. In general relativity, crossing a black hole's event horizon traps an object inside but produces no locally detectable change. General relativity also predicts that every black hole should have a central singularity, where the curvature of spacetime is infinite. Objects whose gravitational fields are too strong for light to escape were first considered in the 18th century. In 1916, the first solution of general relativity that would characterise a black hole was found. By the late 1950s, this solution began to be interpreted physically as a region of space from which nothing can escape. Black holes were long considered a mathematical curiosity; it was not until the 1960s that theoretical work showed they were a generic prediction of general relativity. The first widely accepted black hole was Cygnus X-1, an x-ray source proposed as a black hole binary through several studies between 1971 and 1974. Black holes typically form as part of a supernova event when massive stars collapse at the end of their life cycle. After a black hole has formed, it can grow by absorbing mass from its surroundings. Supermassive black holes of millions of solar masses may form by absorbing stars and merging with other black holes, or via direct collapse of gas clouds. There is consensus that supermassive black holes exist in the centres of most galaxies. Quantum field theory in curved spacetime predicts that event horizons emit Hawking radiation, with the rate of emission being inversely proportional to the mass. This causes the black hole to lose mass very slowly, provided it is not accreting matter. However, even the smallest class of black holes observed, stellar black holes, are gaining mass from the cosmic microwave background faster than they are losing mass via Hawking radiation. The presence of a black hole can be inferred through its interaction with matter and electromagnetic radiation such as visible light. Matter falling toward a black hole can form an accretion disk of infalling plasma, heated by friction and emitting light. In extreme cases, this creates a quasar, some of the brightest objects in the universe. Merging black holes can be detected by the gravitational waves they emit. If stars are orbiting a black hole, their motions can be used to determine the black hole's mass and location. In this way, astronomers have identified numerous stellar black hole candidates in binary systems and established that the radio source known as Sagittarius A*, at the core of the Milky Way galaxy, contains a supermassive black hole of about 4.3 million solar masses. The idea of a body so massive that even light could not escape was first proposed in the late 18th century by English astronomer and clergyman John Michell and independently by French scientist Pierre-Simon Laplace. Both scholars proposed very large stars in contrast to the modern concept of an extremely dense object. Michell's idea, in a short part of a letter published in 1784, calculated that a star with the same density but 500 times the radius of the Sun would not let any emitted light escape; the surface escape velocity would exceed the speed of light. Michell correctly hypothesized that such non-radiating bodies might be detectable through their gravitational effects on nearby visible bodies. In 1796, while speculating on the origin of the Solar System in his book Exposition du Système du Monde, Laplace made a qualitative suggestion that a star could be invisible if it were sufficiently large. Franz Xaver von Zach asked Laplace for a mathematical analysis, which Laplace provided and published in von Zach's journal Allgemeine Geographische Ephemeriden. In 1905, Albert Einstein showed that the laws of electromagnetism are identical for observers travelling at different velocities relative to each other. The laws of mechanics had already been shown to be invariant in this way. However, the theory of gravitation was yet to be included.